ICM Gated Starter · Soulfield Lens
  Soulfield Lens
  Free auditDeveloperslens-kit
  ICM Gated Starter · free · Apache-2.0 · no email address required
  Files and folders route the work. Nothing in them reads what it wrote.
  The draft read fine. A number in it was invented, and the citation under it did not exist. The only thing that read it before it went out was the thing that wrote it, and it was confident. Tidy folders do not touch that failure. One check, by a different model, between the draft and your approval does.
    Clone the starter on GitHub →
    Read what we do not claim →
  Interpretable Context Methodology is Jake Van Clief and David McDermott's (arXiv 2603.16021). This starter is one instance of it. The verify stage is ours.
  Every folder, named
icm-gated-starter/
├── CLAUDE.md              the map: read first, sends the agent to the desk
├── CONTEXT.md             the desk: the job, the decisions, where we left off
├── SETUP.md               one page
├── MAKE-IT-MINE.md        say the words and the started project becomes yours
├── RECEIPTS.md            what we can show, what we do not claim, the gate runs on this text
├── profile.example.yaml   the gate's model: local and free, or any endpoint you choose
└── stages/
    ├── 01-plan/           the brief, already written
    ├── 02-draft/          half written; your first job is to finish it
    ├── 03-verify/         the check, the list of claims you have ruled out, the planted mistake that must get caught
    └── 04-live/           publishing, which is yours
  The stage everybody skips
  A single agent with a map and a desk still ships whatever it wrote, because the only thing that read it was the writer. The fix is not more agents, and it is not you reading every line. It is one stage between the draft and your approval that the writer does not control, and that runs without you at the keyboard.
    The check
A fixed set of checks run by a different model from the one that wrote the text. It hands back the line, the check that fired, and the reason. When a check cannot finish it says UNKNOWN, not yes.
    The list
The check cannot know which claims you have ruled out of your own copy. A plain text file with one claim per line can, and the stage reads the draft against it every run. A draft once passed the check clean while carrying a claim we had ruled out; that is why both run, every time.
    The planted mistake
A check nobody has ever seen fail is a check nobody should trust. Every run, a copy of the draft with two planted lies goes through the same stage. It has to fail. If it passes, the check is broken, and nothing ships until it is fixed.
  In the kit these are called the gate, the grep, and the mutant: one command, one text file, one copy.
  Nothing in the first three stages needs you at the keyboard. You are not taken out of the line; you are moved to the one place your judgment is the point. You read the finished thing once, and you approve it or you do not.
  The mistake each folder prevents
     CLAUDE.md The agent starts from whatever it saw last, not from the map.
     CONTEXT.md A new session does not know what the last one decided, and the two quietly drift apart.
     01-plan The draft answers a question nobody wrote down.
     02-draft Planning and writing happen in one breath and neither is inspectable.
     03-verify The draft checks itself. A writer checking its own work is circular; a separate check set run by a separate model is not.
     04-live Something irreversible happens without a person approving it.
  What we do not claim
    That the folder tree makes an agent reliable. We tested a bare single-shot draft against a staged one on the same task and could not show a difference, on one task class, with confounds both ways. That result is published in the starter's own RECEIPTS.md, because a result we hide is a claim we cannot make. The staged line earns its keep at the verify stage.
    A catch rate for your data. We have no measurement on anyone else's data, so we do not quote one.
    That a clean pass is approval. The check does not know which claims you have ruled out; the list does. Both, every run.
    That the check runs itself. It is a stage you run. A person approves what ships.
  Get it
git clone https://github.com/mrhpython/icm-gated-starter
cd icm-gated-starter
cat SETUP.md        # one page: install the gate, open your agent, say "finish the draft"
  The started project is this page: brief written, draft half written. Finish it, run it through the check, and you have used every folder on real work. Then say "make it mine".
    Clone the starter on GitHub →
    The check it wires in: lens-kit →
  Soulfield Lens · api.soulfield.one · hello@soulfield.one · We hold this page to the same check it describes.
